# OpenClassrooms - Python Developer Path

**Project 7:** Solve Problems Using Algorithms in Python

**Student:** Abdoul Baki Seydou

**Date:** 04/04/2023

# Abstract
This project consists of designing for a client, AlgoInvest&Trade, 
a memory-efficient algorithm that reads the information about shares from a file, 
then suggest a list of the most profit-yielding ones within the constraints.

**Constraints:**
- Each share can only be bought once.
- We cannot buy a fraction of a share.
- We can spend at most 500 euros.

This problem is known as the 01 knapsack problem.

We will approach the resolution of the problem in two parts:

**Part1:** We create first for a list of 20 shares, a brute-force solution that will try out 
all the different combinations of shares then return the combination with the highest profit within the constraints. 
The implementation of this part is the [ bruteforce.py ] script in the root of this repository, 
which uses a built-in python function, itertools, to solve problem. 
The execution time is about 2sec on a PC with good performance.

**Part2:** Then create an optimized version of the brute-force solution capable of returning 
the same results for the list of 20 shares in less than one second.
Then lastly test the optimized solution on past datasets with 1000 shares and compare the results.

The implementation of this part is the [ optimized.py ] script in the root of this repository, 
using dynamic programming. It returns the results for the list of the 20 shares in less than a second.

# Requirement

Latest version of Python must be installed.

You can download the latest version for your system from : https://www.python.org/downloads/

# Installation

The following commands rely on the knowledge of how to use the terminal (Unix, macOS) or the command line (Windows).

**1 - Get the code**

  * $ git clone https://github.com/Afudu/P7_OpenClassroom.git

**2 - Move to the folder**

  * Unix/macOS/Windows: cd P7_OpenClassroom

**3 - Create a virtual environment**

  * Unix/macOS: $ python3 -m venv pythonenv
  * Windows: py -m venv pythonenv
  
    * Note: you can create the virtual environment in another folder, then move to that folder to run the command above.
    * Example: in the above command, our virtual environment created is called pythonenv - you can give a different name.

**4 - Activate the virtual environment created**

  * Unix/macOS: $ source pythonenv/bin/activate

  * Windows: pythonenv\Scripts\activate

**5 - Securely upgrade pip**

 * Unix/macOS/Windows: pip install --upgrade pip

**6 - Install all dependencies**

 * Unix/macOS/Windows: pip install -r requirements.txt

# Running the application

To run each of the four scripts, in the terminal (Unix, macOS) or command line (Windows):

python script_file.py

# PEP 8 adherence

The folder 'flake_report' in the repository contains an HTML report generated by flake8-html which displays no errors.
A new report can be generated by running the following command in the terminal (Unix, macOS) 
or command line (Windows): flake8

The file setup.cfg in the root of the repository contains the settings used to generate the report.